Guide for connecting to APIs (#23920)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/docs-beta/docs/guides/external-systems/apis.md

---
title: Connecting to APIs
sidebar_position: 20
---

> This guide describes how to connect to and interact with APIs in dagster.

Reviewer: I think we could 1-3 sentences motivating the use of Resources: what they are and why we use them.

Reviewer 2: +1

## What you'll learn

> - How to write a dagster Resource to connect to an API

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- How to connect to an API using a Dagster resource
```

Feels nitpicky, but I think switching around the what and how here is more user-centric

> - How to use that Resource in an asset

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- How to use the resource in an asset
```

Nit - `resource` doesn't need to be capitalized

Reviewer 2: I see this occurs throughout the guide, so I won't pollute the review with a bunch of comments about it. Mind doing a find/replace to make it lowercase where appropriate?

<details>
  <summary>Prerequisites</summary>

To follow the steps in this guide, you'll need:

- Familiarity with [Asset definitions](/concepts/assets)
- Familiarity with [Resources](/concepts/resources)

> - Install the `requests` library: `pip install requests`

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
- Install the `requests` library:

   ```bash
   pip install requests
   ```
````

Let's make this copy-pasteable

</details>

> ## Step 1: Write a Resource to connect to an API

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 1: Write a resource to connect to an API
```

> Here is a minimal Resource for connecting to the an API that returns the sunrise time. In this example, the request URL has been hardcoded to query for data at San Francisco International Airport.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here is a minimal resource for connecting to an API that returns the sunrise time.

In this example, the request URL has been hardcoded to query for data at San Francisco International Airport.
```

<CodeExample filePath="guides/external-systems/apis/minimal_resource.py" language="python" title="Resource to connect to Sun API" />

## Step 2: Use the Resource in an asset

To use the Resource written in Step 1, you can provide it to an asset like this:

<CodeExample filePath="guides/external-systems/apis/use_minimal_resource_in_asset.py" language="python" title="Use the SFOSunResource in an asset" />

## Step 3: Configure your Resource
Many APIs have configuration you can set to customize your usage. Here is an updated version of the Resource from Step 1 with configuration to allow for setting the query location:

<CodeExample filePath="guides/external-systems/apis/configurable_resource.py" language="python" title="Configurable Resource to connect to Sun API" />

## Step 4: Use the configurable Resource in an asset

The configurable Resource written in Step 3 can be provided to an asset exactly as before. When the Resource is initialized, you can pass values for each of the configuration options.

<CodeExample filePath="guides/external-systems/apis/use_configurable_resource_in_asset.py" language="python" title="Use the configurable SunResource in an asset" />

> ## Next steps

Reviewer: I think we need a section about secrets / env vars

<details>
  <summary>Prerequisites</summary>

To follow the steps in this guide, you'll need:

- Familiarity with [Asset definitions](/concepts/assets)
- Familiarity with [Resources](/concepts/resources)
- Install the `requests` library: `pip install requests`

</details>

## Step 1: Write a Resource to connect to an API

Here is a minimal Resource for connecting to the an API that returns the sunrise time. In this example, the request URL has been hardcoded to query for data at San Francisco International Airport.

<CodeExample filePath="guides/external-systems/apis/minimal_resource.py" language="python" title="Resource to connect to Sun API" />

## Step 2: Use the Resource in an asset

To use the Resource written in Step 1, you can provide it to an asset like this:

<CodeExample filePath="guides/external-systems/apis/use_minimal_resource_in_asset.py" language="python" title="Use the SFOSunResource in an asset" />

## Step 3: Configure your Resource
Many APIs have configuration you can set to customize your usage. Here is an updated version of the Resource from Step 1 with configuration to allow for setting the query location:

> <CodeExample filePath="guides/external-systems/apis/configurable_resource.py" language="python" title="Configurable Resource to connect to Sun API" />

Reviewer 2: Could we add a highlight to the code that changed here?

> ## Step 4: Use the configurable Resource in an asset

Reviewer 2: Does this need to be a step separate from Step 3? IMO it feels like a continuation of it, otherwise it could be confusing with Step 2

Author: also seems like a continuation to me, but i wasn't sure if it would be weird to have the asset usage in its own step in one case but then a sub-set in another case. Happy to make it a sub-set!

---
title: Connecting to APIs
sidebar_position: 20
---

> This guide describes how to connect to and interact with APIs in dagster. In this guide you will use dagster Resources to connect to an external API. Using a Resource allows you to standardize how you connect to an external API across your project and use configuration to customize your connections.

Reviewer 2: I think this is getting close, but I'd lead with why this is important over what the guide contains / what Dagster does, for example:

> When building a data pipeline, you'll likely need to connect to a number of external APIs, each with its own specific configuration and behavior. This guide demonstrates to standardize your API connections and customize their configuration.  

(This could be better written, but hopefully it gives you an idea!)

Author: putting what your wrote in for now, and i'll think some more on how to phrase this!

## Step 2: Use the Resource in an asset

To use the Resource written in Step 1, you can provide it to an asset like this:

<CodeExample filePath="guides/external-systems/apis/use_minimal_resource_in_asset.py" language="python" title="Use the SFOSunResource in an asset" />

## Step 3: Configure your Resource
Many APIs have configuration you can set to customize your usage. Here is an updated version of the Resource from Step 1 with configuration to allow for setting the query location:

<CodeExample filePath="guides/external-systems/apis/configurable_resource.py" language="python" title="Configurable Resource to connect to Sun API" />

## Step 4: Use the configurable Resource in an asset

The configurable Resource written in Step 3 can be provided to an asset exactly as before. When the Resource is initialized, you can pass values for each of the configuration options.

<CodeExample filePath="guides/external-systems/apis/use_configurable_resource_in_asset.py" language="python" title="Use the configurable SunResource in an asset" />

## Step 5: Sourcing configuration values from environment variables

> You can configure your Resource using values that are stored in environment variables using the `EnvVar` class. In this example, there is a new `home_sunrise` asset. Rather than hardcoding the location of your home, you can set it in environment variables, and configure the `SunResource` by reading those values:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Resources can also be configured with environment variables, specifically values stored using the `EnvVar` class.

In this example, there's a new `home_sunrise` asset. Rather than hardcoding the location of your home, you can set it in environment variables and configure the `SunResource` by reading those values:
```

Suggesting we break this up a little bit and vary the sentence structure.

---
title: Connecting to APIs
sidebar_position: 20
---

When building a data pipeline, you'll likely need to connect to a number of external APIs, each with its own specific configuration and behavior. This guide demonstrates how to standardize your API connections and customize their configuration using Dagster resources.

## What you'll learn

- How to connect to an API using a Dagster resource
- How to use that resource in an asset
- How to configure a resource
- How to source configuration values from environment variables

<details>
  <summary>Prerequisites</summary>

To follow the steps in this guide, you'll need:

- Familiarity with [Asset definitions](/concepts/assets)
- Familiarity with [resources](/concepts/resources)
- Install the `requests` library:
    ```bash
    pip install requests
    ```

</details>

## Step 1: Write a resource to connect to an API

> Here is a minimal resource for connecting to an API that returns the sunrise time.

Reviewer 3: I would add a few lines here. Maybe something like

```
This example fetches the sunrise time from a REST API for a given location. We'll start by hardcoding parameters for San Francisco International Airport.
```

In this example, the request URL has been hardcoded to query for data at San Francisco International Airport.

<CodeExample filePath="guides/external-systems/apis/minimal_resource.py" language="python" title="Resource to connect to the Sun API" />

## Step 2: Use the resource in an asset

> To use the resource written in Step 1, you can provide it to an asset like this:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To use the resource written in Step 1, you can provide it as a parameter to an asset.
```

> To use the resource written in Step 1, you can provide it as a parameter to an asset:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To use the resource written in Step 1, you can provide it as a parameter to an asset after including it in the Definitions object:
```
We might want to mention resource inclusion in the Definitions object.

<CodeExample filePath="guides/external-systems/apis/use_minimal_resource_in_asset.py" language="python" title="Use the SunResource in an asset" />

When you materialize `sfo_sunrise`, Dagster will provide an initialized `SunResource` to the `sun_resource` parameter.

## Step 3: Configure your resource
Many APIs have configuration you can set to customize your usage. Here is an updated version of the resource from Step 1 with configuration to allow for setting the query location:

> <CodeExample filePath="guides/external-systems/apis/configurable_resource.py" language="python" title="Configurable Resource to connect to the Sun API" />

Reviewer 3: I think you can combine the code from 3 and 3.1 together here to keep it simpler.

The configurable resource can be provided to an asset exactly as before. When the resource is initialized, you can pass values for each of the configuration options.

When you materialize `sfo_sunrise`, Dagster will provide a `SunResource` initialized with the configuration values to the `sun_resource` parameter.

> ## Step 4: Sourcing configuration values from environment variables

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 4: Source configuration values from environment variables
```

To keep this consistent with the other section headings

> Resources can also be configured with environment variables, specifically values referenced using the `EnvVar` class.

Reviewer: > Resources can also be configured with environment variables. You can either use the `os` module to fetch environment variables, or you can use Dagster's built-in `EnvVar` class, which has special treatment in the Dagster UI to redact secrets.

> Resources can also be configured with environment variables, You can either use the `os` module to fetch environment variables, or you can use Dagster's built-in `EnvVar` class. Configuration that is fetched using the `EnvVar` class will be redacted in the Dagster UI.

Reviewer 2: This is veering into explanation territory. I'd prefer us to pick a single way to do this, link to the env var guide, and then show the example.

If it's a strongly held opinion that we should show `os` and `EnvVar` here, we could do something like this:

```suggestion
Resources can also be configured with environment variables. You can either use the `os` module or Dagster's built-in `EnvVar` class to fetch environment variables:

<Tabs, one for an os module example and one for EnvVar>

**Note**: Dagster treats each approach to fetching environment variables differently, such as when they are fetched or how they display in the UI. Refer to the [Environment variables guide](/todo) for more information.
```

Author: maybe I can just mention EnvVar in this guide and then in the note say you can also fetch using os, each approach is treated differently, read the guide for more

Author: went with that approach, let me know what you think

Reviewer 2: I dig this a lot - nicely done!

When you materialize `sfo_sunrise`, Dagster will provide a `SunResource` initialized with the configuration values to the `sun_resource` parameter.

## Step 4: Sourcing configuration values from environment variables
Resources can also be configured with environment variables, specifically values referenced using the `EnvVar` class.

In this example, there is a new `home_sunrise` asset. Rather than hardcoding the location of your home, you can set it in environment variables, and configure the `SunResource` by reading those values:

<CodeExample filePath="guides/external-systems/apis/env_var_configuration.py" language="python" title="Configure the resource with values from environment variables" />

> When you materialize `home_sunrise`, Dagster will read the values set for the `HOME_LATITUDE`, `HOME_LONGITUDE, and `HOME_TIMZONE` environment variables and initialize a `SunResource` with those values. That initialized `SunResource` will be provided to the `sun_resource` parameter. Note that the values are read **at materialization time**, so the environment variables must be set where the code is executing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When you materialize `home_sunrise`, Dagster will read the values set for the `HOME_LATITUDE`, `HOME_LONGITUDE`, and `HOME_TIMZONE` environment variables and initialize a `SunResource` with those values. 

The initialized `SunResource` will be provided to the `sun_resource` parameter. 

:::note

Environment variables are read **at materialization time**, so the environment variables must be set where the code executes.

:::

```

---
title: Connecting to APIs
sidebar_position: 20
---

> When building a data pipeline, you'll likely need to connect to several external APIs, each with its own specific configuration and behavior. This guide demonstrates how to standardize your API connections and customize their configuration using Dagster resources.

Reviewer 5: @jamiedemaria This is great.

@erinkcochran87 @PedramNavid curious what you think in terms of 

I think we should include (abridged) language about when it is good to use resources. E.g:

-------
Accessing an API through a Dagster resource is useful if you want to:

* Parameterize how to access the service at runtime (either through API or UI) via config.
* Surface that configuration in Dagster. 
* Centralize configuration and implementation of this API access. 
* Plug in different implementations of resources in different environments (local dev versus production, for example).

If you don't want any of these features, you should just invoke the external service directly.
